---
layout: post
title: Scalable Bayesian Reinforcement Learning
---
The aim of this post is to introduce to you the topic of my PhD research. I am interested in the development of scalable Bayesian Reinforcement Learning algorithms. Before we look at look at why I believe this to be nobable persuit let's first set the scene. 

The development of intelligent agents has the potential to significantly improve various industries. In many real-world scenarios, where the environment is complex and uncertain, it is often required that an agent learns from experience in order to adapt its behaviour to perform optimally. Reinforcement learning has become a natural choice for this learning process in many sequential decision-making domains. In a reinforcement learning problem, an agent interacts with an environment according to an action-selection strategy, or policy. At each interaction, the agent observes the current state of the environment, as well as receiving a reward depending on that state. A reinforcement learning algorithm seeks to find an optimal policy that maximises a long-term performance measure, typically the expected cumulative rewards [BT96, SB18]. Reinforcement learning has seen recent success in a range of fields including finance, healthcare and robotics. Specifically, it has resulted in the development of agents with superhuman ability in games such as Chess and Go, Dota 2, and StarCraft II.

However despite their recent success, traditional reinforcement learning algorithms are plagued with issues that prevent their widespread adoption in this industry [JDH20, STZ+19]. Primary of these is sample inefficiency: the agents require a large amount of trial-and-error samples to learn a good policy. This amount often grows exponentially with the size of the state space, making them impractical in large complex problems such as high-resolution continuous-space video-games. This issue is linked to the agent balancing exploring the environment to learn about potentially better sources of reward and exploiting the well-known sources of rewards, commonly referred to as the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Finding the right balance is crucial to achieving good performance while minimizing the number of samples and training steps required.

Bayesian reinforcement learning is a reinforcement learning approach that leverages methods from Bayesian inference to incorporate information into the learning process. Here prior information about the problem is represented through the prior distribution and new information is then incorporated using standard rules of Bayesian inference. The main advantage of this approach is that by selecting actions that maximize the expected gain with respect to the information state, it naturally balances the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Additionally, the inclusion of the prior distribution implicitly facilitates regularization, allowing for a more stable training of the agent. In the tabular domain, Bayesian reinforcement learning algorithms have achieved competitive performance against the traditional reinforcement learning algorithms while having higher sample efficiency. However, Bayesian reinforcement learning algorithms are often computationally expensive, especially for high-dimensional spaces, due to the large amount of Bayesian inference steps needed to update the posterior distribution [GMPT15]. Additionally, sampling from the posterior distribution can often be time-consuming, especially for complex models. It’s for these reasons that, despite their theoretical advantages, Bayesian reinforcement learning algorithms have yet to be applied to large complex domains.